Hey everyone.
So I wanted to give you a couple quick real life examples of products that are in the product lifecycle
in a couple of the different stages.
So, remember, we have introduction, growth, maturity, and decline.
So let's go ahead and take a look at my web browser here and we'll look at a couple of these products.
So this would be a product that is in the introduction phase and that is because it is really, really early in the market.
It's something I found the other day called the Dream by Rhythm.
It's this web site rhythm.co.
It's basically some kind of sleep wearable that helps you get better sleep.
But the real telltale here is that it's not quite launched to the absolute public, but it is available
to be bought by early adopters, so if you click Apply Now they've got this first version coming out here very soon.
So this is something that is in the introductory phase and there's really no doubt about it.
There's a lot of ways to find companies like this.
You can go on places like Tech Crunch or Product Hunt and check out companies or products that are just now starting.
So now let's check out a product that is in the growth phase.
Alright, so my example for a growth product is Snapchat, and most people know what Snapchat is,
but if you don't, it's a little bit of like a picture based social network that's been growing pretty quickly.
It's only a couple of years old but it's still in growth and this is their web site which doesn't show
you much, but... you can see the app there. But the real telltale here is if you go to Google Trends,
so let's type in Snapchat into Google Trends and we can see over time the interest is just skyrocketing
and it's really showing no signs of slowing down, and they're beginning to make money,
so they're really, really in this growth phase,
and there's a lot of people that are starting to look to compete with them at this point.
All right.
So let's take a look at a product that is in the maturity phase.
How about Twitter?
This is something we've talked about a little bit in terms of the company but Twitter's having some
struggles with their growth.
A lot of people think it's in the mature phase because their product is becoming a little bit more difficult
to use for the mainstream audience.
And if we just Google some stats on them we can get articles like this saying that their growth over time is really stagnating.
This graph right here shows that we're getting a little bit of a plateau here 16, 16, 18, 18, and 19,
it's not really growing like it did back in the day from 8 to 12 and 10 to 13.
So Twitter is definitely a company that is in the maturity phase. Unless they can do something really amazing to their product,
It's probably going to stay that way and maybe even go into decline.
So let's take a look at an example for something that's in the decline phase.
How about Yahoo?
Yahoo is a really old company actually and they've been in decline for a while but it's getting really bad lately.
If you've looked at some of the articles about them lately, you can see ones like this, you know, hedge funds are dumping their stock.
You just, with just a simple Google search or go to Google Finance and you get stuff like this
where we can back off the last five years and check out their revenues that are stock price.
And it's definitely on the way down.
There's even talks of them selling a piece of their business
at this point.
So just using Google and looking up products or companies is a really great way to kind of feel out
where they are in the product lifecycle.
Like I said before, there's really no definitive guide to where a company is in particular right in the
cycle, but you need to understand really how companies go through these cycles and they try to stop from declining.
All right, makes sense? So we've got those four major phases of the cycle and you can just do some internet
research and get a really good idea of
where companies are at that point.
I'll see you in the next lecture.